h1. Audit Log module

A fork of "http://github.com/alexanderstrebkov/auditlog":http://github.com/alexanderstrebkov/auditlog brought up to date with version 1.2.3 of the "Play! Framework":http://www.playframework.org.

h2. Add Audit Log module to your application's dependency list

In the **conf/dependencies.yml** file, add a local repository and a dependency

bc. # Application dependencies
require:
    - play
    - auditlog -> auditlog
repositories:
    - localRepo:
        type: local
        artifact: ${application.path}/../[module]
        contains:
          - auditlog

Adjust the **artifact** setting accordingly.

h2. Enable the Audit Log module for the application

In the **/conf/application.conf** file, enable the Hibernate event listeners for the Audit Log module by adding those lines:

bc. # Audit Log
hibernate.ejb.event.post-insert=play.modules.auditlog.AuditLogListener
hibernate.ejb.event.post-update=play.modules.auditlog.AuditLogListener
hibernate.ejb.event.post-delete=play.modules.auditlog.AuditLogListener

h2. Using the Audit Log module

h3. Add @Auditable annotation to your model:

bc. @Entity
@Auditable
public class Book extends Model {

You are done. All create, update and delete operations will be logged into AuditLogEvent model provided by module. Following information is stored:

* Model name
* Model id
* Operation (CREATE, UPDATE or DELETE)
* Property name
* Old value
* New value
* Actor
* Date and time
* Session id

By default actor is **username** property from **session** and session id is taken from **session.getId()** (compatible with Secure module for Play! Framework).

h3. Protecting passwords:

To ensure passwords and other sensitive data is not included in the audit log the **@PasswordField** annotation is provided.  Simply annotate the sensitive fields like so:

bc. @Entity
@Auditable
public class User extends Model {
    @PasswordField
    public String password;

The audit log will contain an entry for the field to show it was changed but will not log the value.  It logs '******' instead.
